Tuples are used to store multiple items in a single variable.
Tuple is one of 4 built-in data types in Python used to store collections of data, the other 3 are List, Set, and Dictionary, all with different qualities and usage.
A tuple is a collection which is ordered and unchangeable.
Tuples are written with round brackets.
Tuple items are ordered, unchangeable, and allow duplicate values.
When we say that tuples are ordered, it means that the items have a defined order, and that order will not change.
Tuples are unchangeable, meaning that we cannot change, add or remove items after the tuple has been created.
Tuple items can be of any data type:
Tuples are unchangeable, meaning that you cannot change, add, or remove items once the tuple is created.
But there is a workaround. You can convert the tuple into a list, change the list, and convert the list back into a tuple.
Since tuples are immutable, they do not have a build-in append() method, but there are other ways to add items to a tuple.

1. Convert into a list: Just like the workaround for changing a tuple, you can convert it into a list, add your item(s), and convert it back into a tuple.
2. Add tuple to a tuple. You are allowed to add tuples to tuples, so if you want to add one item, (or many), create a new tuple with the item(s), and add it to the existing tuple:

Tuples are unchangeable, so you cannot remove items from it, but you can use the same workaround as we used for changing and adding tuple items:
To join two or more tuples you can use the + operator:
If you want to multiply the content of a tuple a given number of times, you can use the \* operator:

Python has two built-in methods that you can use on tuples.

Method Description
count() Returns the number of times a specified value occurs in a tuple
index() Searches the tuple for a specified value and returns the position of where it was found

packing of tuple/list:
it is done in function defination when we paas many arguments in function calling. single star is used.

unpacking of tuple/list:
it is done in function calling when we paas only one argument. single star is used.