
Sets are used to store multiple items in a single variable.
Set is one of 4 built-in data types in Python used to store collections of data, the other 3 are List, Tuple, and Dictionary, all with different qualities and usage.
A set is a collection which is unordered, unchangeable*, and unindexed.
* Note: Set items are unchangeable, but you can remove items and add new items.
Sets are written with curly brackets.
Set items are unordered, unchangeable, and do not allow duplicate values.
Unordered means that the items in a set do not have a defined order.
Set items can appear in a different order every time you use them, and cannot be referred to by index or key.
Set items are unchangeable, meaning that we cannot change the items after the set has been created.
Once a set is created, you cannot change its items, but you can remove items and add new items.
Sets cannot have two items with the same value.
You cannot access items in a set by referring to an index or a key.
But you can loop through the set items using a for loop, or ask if a specified value is present in a set, by using the in keyword.
To add one item to a set use the add() method.
To add items from another set into the current set, use the update() method.
The object in the update() method does not have to be a set, it can be any iterable object (tuples, lists, dictionaries etc.).
To remove an item in a set, use the remove(), or the discard() method.
Note: If the item to remove does not exist, remove() will raise an error.
Note: If the item to remove does not exist, discard() will NOT raise an error.
You can also use the pop() method to remove an item, but this method will remove the last item. Remember that sets are unordered, so you will not know what item that gets removed.
The return value of the pop() method is the removed item.
The clear() method empties the set:
The del keyword will delete the set completely:
You can use the union() method that returns a new set containing all items from both sets, or the update() method that inserts all the items from one set into another:
Note: Both union() and update() will exclude any duplicate items.
The intersection_update() method will keep only the items that are present in both sets.
The intersection() method will return a new set, that only contains the items that are present in both sets.
The symmetric_difference_update() method will keep only the elements that are NOT present in both sets.
The symmetric_difference() method will return a new set, that contains only the elements that are NOT present in both sets.


Set Methods
Python has a set of built-in methods that you can use on sets.

Method	Description
add()	Adds an element to the set
clear()	Removes all the elements from the set
copy()	Returns a copy of the set
difference()	Returns a set containing the difference between two or more sets
difference_update()	Removes the items in this set that are also included in another, specified set
discard()	Remove the specified item
intersection()	Returns a set, that is the intersection of two other sets
intersection_update()	Removes the items in this set that are not present in other, specified set(s)
isdisjoint()	Returns whether two sets have a intersection or not
issubset()	Returns whether another set contains this set or not
issuperset()	Returns whether this set contains another set or not
pop()	Removes an element from the set
remove()	Removes the specified element
symmetric_difference()	Returns a set with the symmetric differences of two sets
symmetric_difference_update()	inserts the symmetric differences from this set and another
union()	Return a set containing the union of sets
update()	Update the set with the union of this set and others










